README.md, before:

# HRLens

HRLens is an AI-powered HR analytics and search platform that enables natural language querying of HR data using a combination of LLMs, vector search, and Elasticsearch.

## Features

- Natural language query processing
- Semantic search with vector similarity caching
- Elasticsearch-based data storage and retrieval
- Performance tracking and monitoring

## Architecture

### Core Components

1. **Search Agent**: Converts natural language to Elasticsearch queries
2. **Vector Cache**: Stores semantically similar queries using Milvus
3. **Elasticsearch**: Primary data storage and search engine

### Query Processing Flow

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[User Query] --> B[Generate Query Vector]
    B --> C{Check Vector Cache}
    C -->|Cache Hit| D[Retrieve ES Query]
    C -->|Cache Miss| E[Generate ES Query via LLM]
    E --> F[Store Query in Cache]
    D --> G[Execute ES Search]
    F --> G
    G --> H[Return Results]
```

1. **Query Input**
   - User submits natural language query
   - System generates vector embedding

2. **Cache Check**
   - Query vector compared with cached vectors in Milvus
   - If match found: retrieve associated Elasticsearch query
   - If no match: generate new query via LLM

3. **Search Execution**
   - Execute Elasticsearch query (cached or newly generated)
   - Return results to user
   - Store new queries in vector cache for future use

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.9+
- Elasticsearch 8.x
- Milvus 2.x
- OpenAI API key

### Installation

1. Clone and setup environment:
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. Configure environment (.env):
```bash
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_api_key
ES_HOSTS=http://localhost:9200
ELASTICSEARCH_INDEX=hr_lens
MILVUS_HOST=localhost
MILVUS_PORT=19530
```

3. Start services:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

4. Run application:
```bash
uvicorn app.main:app --reload
```

## API Endpoints

### Search
```http
POST /api/search
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "query": "Find engineers in India"
}
```

### Cache Statistics
```http
GET /api/cache/stats
```

### Clear Cache
```http
POST /api/clear_cache
```

## Dependencies

- FastAPI
- Elasticsearch
- OpenAI
- LangChain
- Milvus
- Pydantic

For detailed configuration options, see `app/config.py`.

Commit message:

Refactor vector cache and enhance query handling.
Replaced legacy cache with Milvus-based vector cache for improved search efficiency and scalability. Refactored related modules to align with the new design, updated APIs for cache management, and enhanced statistics reporting. Introduced stricter similarity thresholds, better error handling, and optimized embedding workflows.

Signed-off-by: Sagar Rout <sagar.rout@xarvio.com>

README.md, after:

# HRLens

HRLens is an AI-powered HR analytics and search platform that enables natural language querying of HR data using LLMs, vector search, and Elasticsearch.

## Features

- Natural language query processing
- Vector-based semantic caching using Milvus
- Elasticsearch-based data storage and retrieval
- Performance tracking and monitoring

## Architecture

### Core Components

1. **Search Agent**: Converts natural language to Elasticsearch queries
2. **Vector Cache**: Stores semantically similar queries in Milvus
3. **Elasticsearch**: Primary data storage and search engine

### Query Processing Flow

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[User Query] --> B[Generate Query Vector]
    B --> C{Check Vector Cache}
    C -->|Cache Hit| D[Retrieve ES Query]
    C -->|Cache Miss| E[Generate ES Query via LLM]
    E --> F[Store in Vector Cache]
    D --> G[Execute ES Search]
    F --> G
    G --> H[Return Results]
```

1. **Query Processing**
   - Convert natural language query to vector embedding
   - Check Milvus for similar existing queries
   - Generate new ES query via LLM if needed

2. **Search Execution**
   - Use cached or newly generated Elasticsearch query
   - Execute search and return results
   - Cache new queries for future use

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.9+
- Elasticsearch 8.x
- Milvus 2.x
- OpenAI API key

### Installation

1. Clone and setup environment:
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. Configure environment (.env):
```bash
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_api_key
ES_HOSTS=http://localhost:9200
ELASTICSEARCH_INDEX=hr_lens
MILVUS_HOST=localhost
MILVUS_PORT=19530
```

3. Start services:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

4. Run application:
```bash
uvicorn app.main:app --reload
```

## API Endpoints

### Search
```http
POST /api/search
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "query": "Find engineers in India"
}
```

### Cache Statistics
```http
GET /api/cache/stats
```

### Clear Cache
```http
POST /api/clear_cache
```

## Dependencies

- FastAPI
- Elasticsearch
- OpenAI
- LangChain
- Milvus
- Pydantic

For detailed configuration options, see `app/config.py`.
